front-end/content/projects/portfolio-website/article.mdx, before:

---
title: Personal website
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: portfolio-website
state: Development
URL: https://oleksiipopov.com/
date: 2024-02-17
draft: false
description: Personal software development blog and portfolio
thumbnail: /projects/me/me-landing.png
gallery:
    - /projects/me/me-landing.png
    - /projects/me/me-blog.png
    - /projects/me/me-portfolio.png
    - /projects/me/me-cv.png
    - /projects/me/me-menu-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-project-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-article-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-landing-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-portfolio-mobile.png
---

## Type

Own project

## Description

Personal software development blog and portfolio

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- Next.js
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown
- AWS-CDK

## Main features

- Blog
- Portfolio
- CV
- SEO
- Completely static pre-rendered website
- Full-Stack project
- Self-hosted image service (AWS solutions)

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app and its infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Links

[https://oleksiipopov.com/](https://oleksiipopov.com/)

## Project phase

Development

Commit message:

feat: enhance Carousel and PostCard components to display project type and improve project identification

front-end/content/projects/portfolio-website/article.mdx, after:

---
title: Personal website
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: portfolio-website
state: Development
URL: https://oleksiipopov.com/
date: 2024-02-17
draft: false
description: Personal website for software development blog and portfolio. It is a completely static pre-rendered Next.js website with a self-hosted image service.

thumbnail: /projects/me/me-landing.png
gallery:
    - /projects/me/me-landing.png
    - /projects/me/me-blog.png
    - /projects/me/me-portfolio.png
    - /projects/me/me-cv.png
    - /projects/me/me-menu-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-project-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-article-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-landing-mobile.png
    - /projects/me/me-portfolio-mobile.png
---

## Description

Personal website for software development blog and portfolio. It is a completely static pre-rendered Next.js website with a self-hosted image service.

## Links

[https://oleksiipopov.com/](https://oleksiipopov.com/)

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- Next.js
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown
- AWS-CDK

## Main features

- Blog
- Portfolio
- CV
- SEO
- Completely static pre-rendered website
- Full-Stack project
- Self-hosted image service (AWS solutions)

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app and its infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Project phase

Production
