front-end/content/projects/advanced-logger/article.mdx, before:

---
title: Documentation website for advanced-logger NPM package
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: advanced-logger
state: Production
URL: https://advanced-logger.com/
date: 2022-01-01
draft: false
description: Documentation website for advanced-logger NPM package
thumbnail: /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-about.png
gallery:
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-about.png
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-start.png
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-strategy.png
---

## Type

Own project

## Description

Documentation website for advanced-logger NPM package

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- GatsbyJS
- GraphQL
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown

## Main features

- Completely static pre-rendered website
- SEO

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app and its infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Links

[https://advanced-logger.com/](https://advanced-logger.com/)

## Project phase

Production

Commit message:

feat: enhance Carousel and PostCard components to display project type and improve project identification

front-end/content/projects/advanced-logger/article.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced-logger NPM library and website
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: advanced-logger
state: Production
URL: https://advanced-logger.com/
date: 2022-01-01
draft: false
description: Advanced-logger NPM library and website. It is a TypeScript library for logging in Node.js and browser applications. It provides a flexible and powerful logging system with support for multiple transports, log levels, and custom formats.
thumbnail: /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-about.png
gallery:
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-about.png
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-start.png
    - /projects/advanced-logger/advanced-logger-strategy.png
---

## Description

Advanced-logger NPM library and website. It is a TypeScript library for logging in Node.js and browser applications. It provides a flexible and powerful logging system with support for multiple transports, log levels, and custom formats.

## Links

[Documentation website](https://advancedlogger.com/)
[NPM Library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/advanced-logger)

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- GatsbyJS
- GraphQL
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown

## Main features

- NPM module that works in browser and Node.js
- Completely static pre-rendered website
- Code highlighting
- SEO

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app, library and their infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Project phase

Production
