front-end/content/projects/zapiski-mami/article.mdx, before:

---
title: Personal blog for my wife "Zapiski Mami"
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: zapiski-mami
state: Production
URL: https://zapiskimami.com/
date: 2022-01-31
draft: false
description: Personal hobby blog for my wife
thumbnail: /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-landing.png
gallery:
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-landing.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-blog.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-article.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-article-mobile.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-blog-mobile.png
---

## Type

Own project

## Description

Personal hobby blog for my wife

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- GatsbyJS
- GraphQL
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown

## Main features

- Completely static pre-rendered website
- Tags
- SEO
- Netlify CMS as a static admin panel
- GitHub as a content source
- GitHub API as an authentication provider

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app and its infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Links

[https://zapiskimami.com/](https://zapiskimami.com/)

## Project phase

Production

Commit message:

feat: enhance Carousel and PostCard components to display project type and improve project identification

front-end/content/projects/zapiski-mami/article.mdx, after:

---
title: Personal blog for my wife "Zapiski Mami"
type: Own project
company: "-"
slug: zapiski-mami
state: Production
URL: https://zapiskimami.com/
date: 2022-01-31
draft: false
description: It is a completely static pre-rendered GatsbyJS website with GraphQL as a data source, Netlify CMS as an admin side and GitHub as an authentication service. It is a personal project that I did for my wife to share her thoughts and ideas with the world.
thumbnail: /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-landing.png
gallery:
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-landing.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-blog.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-article.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-article-mobile.png
    - /projects/zapiski-mami/zapiski-blog-mobile.png
---

## Description

It is a completely static pre-rendered GatsbyJS website with GraphQL as a data source, Netlify CMS as an admin side and GitHub as an authentication service. It is a personal project that I did for my wife to share her thoughts and ideas with the world.

## Links

[https://zapiskimami.com/](https://zapiskimami.com/)

## Technologies

- TypeScript
- GatsbyJS
- GraphQL
- Node.js
- TailwindCSS
- React
- Markdown

## Main features

- Completely static pre-rendered website
- Tags
- SEO
- Netlify CMS as a static admin panel
- GitHub as a content source
- GitHub API as an authentication provider

## My commitment

- System design and architecture of the app and its infrastructure
- UX
- Implementation of the application from the scratch

## Project phase

Production
